>>REGINA MEREDITH: While
much of the Western media
has relegated
astrology to one-liners
in the newspaper and
women's magazines, in truth,
empires have been won
and lost on the basis
of astrological
insights revealed
to leaders throughout history.
From cave drawings 25,000
years ago to present,
the position of the
sun, moon and planets
can give us a
framework for the times
of both large and
personal scales.
Monte Farber has
been assisting people
to work in harmony with
these cycles for decades.
He's worked with some of
the world's wealthiest,
to the average
person, and looking
for clues as to how to
construct our actions in life.
Besides that, he's psychic,
which definitely gives you
an edge.
>>MONTE FARBER: Yes, it does.
>>REGINA: I understand
why you're so popular.
And I feel totally
honored to have you here.
You're on the large--
>>FARBER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: --networks,
and all of that,
and here you are
with us at Gaiam.
>>FARBER: Oh my god.
Well, I think you are
the large network.
>>REGINA: Well, I
love to hear that.
Please, tell us all your
predictions for Gaiam.
No, we'll wait on that.
I'll ask you off camera.
>>FARBER: I think they
could see it in my face.
I feel like I'm where
I'm supposed to be
and where everyone wants to be.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's fabulous.
OK, now we're going
to look at astrology
from a very different
point of view.
>>FARBER: Yes, which is
the way I look at it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you look at it
from the deep history
from a different point of view.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because
we're going way back--
>>FARBER: Way back.
>>REGINA: We're going back--
>>FARBER: Thousands of years.
>>REGINA: --many, many
thousands of years.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And we are
going to be looking,
kind of as a set up for it,
at the cosmos through the lens
of your friend,
the now deceased--
>>FARBER: Yes.
--Zecharia Sitchin.
>>FARBER: An amazing man.
A tough guy.
And I thought a genius
on the level of Einstein,
though a lot of people think
that his work is specious.
Knowing him, I know that
every word he ever said,
he thought he could back up
with a stack of books this high.
So when I sometimes read
that people have problems
with his theories,
to me, his theories
are what Einstein was looking
at before he passed away,
which was the
unified field theory.
Zecharia Sitchin did
the unified field theory
of the origins of humanity.
It's the only
thing that explains
the monumental buildings
around the world.
It's the only
thing that explains
so many things around the world.
And it also relates to
the origins of astrology,
because astrologers who will
always say, well, astrology's
been around for 5,000 years.
They don't want to
really admit what
was going on when
it started out.
>>REGINA: OK.
And that's what I want
to talk to you about.
Now, Sitchin wrote "The
12th Planet," right?
>>FARBER: He wrote a
whole series of books.
"The 12th Planet" series,
and that's the first one.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's talk about not
only "The 12th Planet,"
what happened to the other
planets in between the ones
that we recognize today?
And so let's go into
the deep history.
Let's go back about
four billion years.
>>FARBER: Well, four
billion years ago,
a planet that had been expelled
from an exploding solar system
was captured by
the sun's gravity
and came through our solar
system, with its moons.
And one of the moons
struck what the Earth
was at that time, which was
twice its size, a glancing
blow, split it in half.
Half of it became
the asteroid belt,
which is in Sumerian-- we're
talking about Sumerian-- which
they called-- that was heaven.
And heaven, the
word heaven comes
from hammered-out bracelet.
Because if you look at
a bracelet that's been
hammered-out with a ball
peen hammer, it looks like--
>>REGINA: Like an asteroid belt.
>>FARBER: --like an asteriod
belt completely encircling it.
And it knocked Earth
into its position
where it is now, put it at the
23 degree tilt, we have summer,
winter, we have the solstices,
we have the equinoxes.
And life originated
on that one planet
when it was captured
by the solar system.
It's the reason that
Uranus inclines its axis
towards the sun.
It created havoc, and we're
talking about four billion--
>>REGINA: And you're saying
the sun pulled it into--
>>FARBER: Well, yes.
>>REGINA: --its
gravitational influence.
And what was the
name of this planet?
>>FARBER: Well, he
calls it Nibiru,
N-I-B-I-R-U is what he--
and he says that everything
the Sumerians said, and they
knew that the Earth went around
the sun, and they knew that
there was a planet Pluto.
They called it Gaga, which
is funny with Lady Gaga.
>>REGINA: Oh, I was
just going to say
Lady Gaga, gives
her some new depth.
>>FARBER: Well, they
talked about Gaga
and how it would be the
one that would greet them
when they would come back
because it's the furthest.
But sometimes it would
be within the orbit.
It gets a little confusing
because the Sumerians
assigned the names of
their early kings of Nibiru
and queens to the planets.
So when you're reading--
Zecharia's work is not easy.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: I'm a popularizer.
Like the reason I've
done karma cards
was to popularize astrology so
that anyone-- the hardest part
is taking the shrink wrap off.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
He wasn't a popular genre.
>>FARBER: No.
He did not care.
He actually asked
me, and my wife
Amy who's an artist, to
do the children's book
version of his work,
because he felt
that she was the
only artist that--
>>REGINA: That's great.
Maybe I could understand it.
>>FARBER: Well, the thing is
is I really understand it,
but I don't understand why
no one else understands it,
because he will go through like
a whole book worth of stuff
to get to something that I would
say in the first 10 minutes.
But anyway, so this
planet came through.
It comes back every 3,600 years.
That's one of their years.
Life originated on that planet--
>>REGINA: Nibiru.
>>FARBER: On Nibiru.
And when it hit what was
called Tiamat-- that's
what the Sumarians called
Earth when it was big Earth.
Split in half, asteroid belt,
Earth, and where it is now.
That seed got sent
on to our planet.
So life came onto
this planet as well.
But life and sentient life
and people are on this planet.
It goes every 3,600
years and makes a circle.
>>REGINA: Isn't it
coming back right now?
Isn't it a return cycle?
>>FARBER: I mean,
it's like two rabbis.
You put two rabbis in a
room, you get three opinions.
There's so many opinions
about when it's coming back.
But by now they should
be able to get here
whenever they want to get here.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: Either
that, or they're
really not the best scientists.
Let's face it, if
they got here then,
they can get here now
anytime they want.
And they must be psychic, too.
I'm always wondering,
are they psychic?
If they're not psychic,
why are they not psyc--
>>REGINA: You're talking about--
>>FARBER: The people
that live on the planet.
>>REGINA: The ones
who were known
as a gods in ancient times
>>FARBER: The Anunnaki.
And in the Bible-- Zecharia
started his whole career
because in the Bible, in the
first 12 verses of Genesis,
it says, "And the God said,
let--" Elohim is plural.
And he raised his hand
thinking he'd get a gold star
saying, teacher,
Elohim is plural.
Why does it say gods.
And they said, basically,
sit down and shut up.
And he spent his
whole life on this.
So I think that's the reason
he was a little crusty.
Can imagine you spend your
whole life on something,
you believe it with every
fiber, and people say ah, no.
It's no good.
And they don't even read
it, because if they read it
they'd say, well, maybe he's
got something going on there.
So when the life started
there, their atmosphere
was kept by volcanic eruptions.
>>REGINA: On Nibiru
you're talking about.
>>FARBER: On Nibiru, yeah.
Because the first
question people
say is, well, if they
go out every 3,600,
and they go way out to the point
where either we don't see it
or no one's saying
they see it, how
do they breathe,
how do they live.
And they supposedly live on
these volcanic eruptions.
But every time they would
come through our solar system,
they'd lose a little
bit of their atmosphere.
And every time they'd
go way out there,
they'd lose a little
bit of their atmosphere.
And they found-- they
eventually decided
to use gold particles
suspended in their atmosphere,
because gold can be hammered
into-- like the gold
on an astronaut's shield can
be seen through, because gold
can be hammered 500 atoms thin.
And one of the solutions
to our world's problem
of the ozone layer was
to suspend gold particles
in the hole over--
>>REGINA: So it may-- so it
lends some credence to the fact
that these many, many,
many, many years ago--
>>FARBER: Many years ago.
>>REGINA: --this other
species came here in order
to-- And Sitchin's
work, very specifically
for the purpose of mining
gold from this planet
to be able to save
their own environment.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Which got into a
lot of complexities ethically,
morally, and otherwise.
>>FARBER: Yes, they're like Star
Trek except they got involved.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And there are a lot of debates
about also whether or not--
I mean in Sitchin's work because
that's what he focused on,
it seems to me that
the belief then
is that's where it all
began, where in fact, there
may have been other kinds
of evolutionary and-- not
evolutionary-- seeded,
whatnot, experiments going on
even in other parts of the
planets at other times.
>>FARBER: Certainly.
>>REGINA: But we
are only now going
to talk about that portion that
he has carefully documented
through his interpretations
of cuneiform.
>>FARBER: Of cuneiform,
and his interpretations,
and a lot of the
things that were
done by Kramer and all
these other people who
explored the
libraries of Babylon.
All these other places, that
found thousands and thousands
and tens of thousands
of cylinder seals.
They recorded everything
from the making
of beer, which originated
in Sumaria, which everyone's
very interested in that.
There's something called
the Sumerian problem, which
is that one minute you
have nomadic goat herders,
and the next minute you
have brick buildings rising
into the sky, ballet dancers--
>>REGINA: Sophisticated
culture architecture.
>>FARBER: Yes, people
writing, and judges,
and all kinds of amazing things.
And they would say, everything
we know the gods have told us.
And in the Bible it talks
about the gods of our fathers.
The reason they were called
the gods of our fathers
is because they
lived a long time.
Because one year
was 3,600 years.
These people that were
gods with a small g.
And they created
tremendous problems.
>>REGINA: Now, that
gets back to the Tablet
of the Kings, the King's list.
That's a different King's list
than the Egyptian or Egyptian
Atlantian Kings List.
This is the King's
list of those gods--
>>FARBER: Well--
--you're talking about--
>>REGINA: --those entities.
>>FARBER: If you're talking
about the ones from Manetho
and Berossus who were charged
by the different people
to-- like the Egyptians,
I think, was Manetho
and I think the
Babylonians, Berossus.
They did a King's list, and the
first few kings on the list,
I think, were the gods.
They talked with the--
>>REGINA: They lived
thousands of years.
>>FARBER: 17,000 years.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
So they supposedly came
forward in 20 something
thousand years ago.
The same thing is if you're
into Hindu astrology and the Age
of Brahmin, all these
numbers work out.
Or if you're a fan of Yogananda.
He had a teacher that
he supposedly saw,
or his teacher
Lahiri Mahasaya saw,
this god Babaji who supposedly
lived for 3,000 years.
He's one of them.
If he's real, he's
one of these people
because they live
for a long time.
>>REGINA: So that 425,000 year
cycle would actually be one
of the short cycles
in the day of Brahma--
>>FARBER: Exactly,
>>REGINA: --compared to the--
>>FARBER: --because I
think it's a million two.
>>REGINA: --overarching
larger, which
are up into the
trillions of years even.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: So let's just
keep it to modern history,
the last 425,000 years or so.
>>FARBER: No, that's
what I love about it.
The thing is I know it
sounds crazy, because just
like astrology, when I
first met my wife in 1974,
she was studying astrology,
I was studying her,
so I learned astrology.
But I thought it was nonsense.
So whenever someone comes to
me and they say it's nonsense,
I say I understand because I
felt exactly the way you do.
It took me three years
before I actually
read the Zecharia Sitchin books.
Someone told me, if you really
want to have your mind blown,
read this stuff.
And when I finally
did I was like, wow,
this really does
expand my consciousness
because it explains a lot.
And one of the things that
saved my life many times
is I know the truth
when I hear it,
and when I read that, I
knew that was the truth.
>>REGINA: Yes, because you're
also intuitive, psychic.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
the information from Sitchin,
the establishing of
societies on the planet
from these travelers
from another place.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And the origins
of astrology, then, and how
it first started coming
in, because I know it
went through a
lot of iterations.
There's a lot of what do
you call it, superstition.
There's a lot of
superstition involved.
>>FARBER: Astrology
and superstition, you
can't separate it.
You really can't.
I mean this is why I'm
not popular with a lot
of astrologers.
Just like an astrology
chart, even though there's
a lot of things
that are supposedly
irreconcilable in
your chart, you
have to figure out
how to live with it.
That's the whole
purpose of astrology.
And I watch astrology charts
manifest in people's lives
and I see them be useful
to people understanding
themselves, understanding
their children,
understanding their spouses.
I know it works.
I don't know how it works,
but I know it works.
But it also comes from a
time-- it was originally
the zodiac was made
as a convenience.
In the Bible it
says the Sabbath was
made for man, not
man for the Sabbath.
The Sabbath or
the constellations
were made so that they could
say when the planets were coming
from somewhere, you have
to be able-- like today,
astronomers plot a planet
in the constellations.
They use this.
It was necessary.
Just the way we have the
30 degree parallel Tropic
of Cancer, Tropic of
Capricorn, all these tropics.
Those original 30 degree
parallels were the way of Anu,
the way of Enlil,
the way of Enki,
and they project
them out into space.
The center one was the
one that we use today,
but originally there
were three groups of 12.
And the 12 is because the
Sumerians and the gods
used-- I forget how you say
it, but it's a 60-based.
Its not 100-based.
Even though we have ten fingers.
It would be 60/10, 60/10.
So that's why we still
have a 360 degree circle.
And they divided the
day into 12 and 12.
12 is a big number.
12 apostles.
>>REGINA: 60 minutes in an hour.
>>FARBER: 60 minutes in an hour.
And they had 12 principle--
first there was Enki.
He was sent here
because-- for the gold.
I mean, to simplify,
and this simplifies
matters because it's
pretty crazy stuff.
And then his brother Enlil.
So these are the two big bosses.
This is-- when
you read the Bible
and it's like why is
God one minute loving
everybody and the next
minute destroying everybody?
I mean the original--
>>REGINA: Well, if you just
substitute the names of Enki
and Enlil--
>>FARBER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --you understand.
And there was an ethical debate
even in the day that occurred.
I mean nobody looks
at these as what
we would call Earth friendly
or human friendly beings.
>>FARBER: They were not.
>>REGINA: But at
the same time, they
did have certain ethics
they were arguing over
when it came to the genetic
manipulation of the people
that they were going to use.
>>FARBER: You know your stuff.
And this is not easy stuff.
But it's so much fun.
The reason everyone always
feels odd about themselves
and the human
condition is we were
created as primitive workers.
It says in the Bible, God
created man in his image.
Well, they did.
We have their DNA.
>>REGINA: Those gods
with the little g.
>>FARBER: The little g,
because they needed the gold.
They originally started
off mining seawater,
because there's
gold in seawater,
but it wasn't enough gold.
So the next minute they're
down in the lower world, which
we consider hell,
but the lower world
was South Africa where they have
found evidence of gold mining
over 100,000 years old.
>>REGINA: Well, Michael
Tellinger's work.
I mean there's a
tremendous amount that's
been discovered in
the last decade.
>>FARBER: The lower world.
That's the lower world.
And that's--
>>REGINA: Enki's palace
they've discovered.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
And there was tremendous
toil-- and these guys,
imagine the astronauts flying
around in their jet planes,
and all of a sudden
they say, well, you've
got to take a pickax
and go down into a hole.
They got really--
OK, I'm going to live
for 10,000 or 100,000 years, and
I'm going to do it mining gold?
They rebelled.
And eventually, Enki,
the one who liked us,
and the reason he liked
us is the way you like
the car that you work
on, because he said,
in my roamings
around the planet,
I have seen what he
called a lulu, which was I
guess the Neander--
I don't even know.
It must have been some kind of--
>>REGINA: Michael
Tellinger's take on it
is that they-- when he's
looked into those times,
they appeared to be more
Neanderthal in nature,
not so much the latest
evolution of the human.
>>FARBER: Well,
in Sitchin's work,
the Sumarians call them
the black-haired people.
So it was probably the black
race was the first one.
And they decided to fix
their genetic material
on what had evolved,
on the being that
had evolved in the
South African area.
>>REGINA: Right, exactly.
>>FARBER: So when they say
that the DNA of our planet
comes out of South Africa,
it makes perfect sense
with what Sitchin's
talking about.
And then when they were
first created, these hominids
or whatever you
want to call them,
we just worked and
worked and worked.
And they really were
not-- they're not nice.
>>REGINA: They worked them hard.
>>FARBER: They
worked them to death.
>>REGINA: They did an
upgrade on the model
because they gave them a certain
amount of physical traits
and mental traits that
they did not-- that weren't
native to them at that moment.
>>FARBER: They were
like mules, though,
they couldn't reproduce.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
But they were used.
>>FARBER: They were
used and abused.
There's no two ways about it.
And then what happened
is the goddesses,
the female Anunnaki--
Anunnaki means
those from heaven to Earth came.
And the heaven that
they're referring to
is the hammered-out bracelet.
Those who through the
asteroid belt came.
That's what they're
referring to.
So the goddesses
rebelled against having
to give birth to these primitive
workers, and then the Anunnaki,
the first guy, his
sister and he figured out
how to give us the
ability to procreate.
And that's the story
of Adam and Eve.
And where the gods lived--
small g-- where the gods lived
was called Edin.
So the story of the garden
of Eden is a real story.
And when the brother
who was really the boss
found out about
it, he threw a fit
and threw everybody
out of the Edin.
And this is how
Adam and Eve were
expelled from the
garden of Eden.
Strangely enough in high school,
I was in honor English class
and in Brooklyn
Technical High School
we studied the Bible as a
secular book for a year,
and it was actually
very useful to me
in my understanding
of Sitchin's work.
Because there's a lot of stuff
in the Bible that's true.
They found all kinds of things
in the 1800s that had not
been-- they did all these
kind of excavations.
>>REGINA: I mean even
though some of it's
presented in
allegorical form, they
were finding the evidence
for the truth behind it.
>>FARBER: They were.
And even Sodom and Gomorrah
and the destruction and Lot's
wife being turned
into a pillar of salt,
that refers to a
nuclear exchange
according to the Sitchin work,
which is what destroyed Sumer.
They called it the evil wind.
They had used nuclear
weapons on their planet
to try and get the
volcanoes going.
Because the reason
their atmosphere
wasn't doing well as it went
around every 3,600 years was
the volcanoes weren't belching
as much as they should.
And they sent the nuclear
weapons into the volcanoes,
and it didn't really help.
And then when this one guy
who first came to Earth came,
he used the nuclear
weapons to blast the path
through the
hammered-out bracelet,
through the asteroid belt.
And he didn't know
anything about radiation.
They just knew that they
sure did make a bright light,
and they sure did blow
everything the hell up.
>>REGINA: Well, and these
references to nuclear attacks
and wars in the future are also
documented throughout the Vedas
and the Bhagavad
Gitas, I under--
>>FARBER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So it's there.
It's in ancient historical
texts of other kinds as well.
>>FARBER: That's why
I love Sitchin's work,
because it unites,
it's a uniter,
it's not really a divider.
Because Ishtar was the one
who founded the Vedic--
the Indus Valley civilization.
Which is why it's
so feminine and they
don't want to kill
the cows and--
>>REGINA: And then
coming back to that.
Now that brings us
back into astrology,
because that is a
deep and ancient part
of the Indian and Hindu culture.
When you have a
child, the astrologer
comes and reads for
your child at birth.
>>FARBER: Even today.
>>REGINA: Even today from birth.
So where did the system
of astrology as we--
even somewhat like we know it
now first come into existence,
with the 12 planets-- I mean
with the 12 signs and so forth?
>>FARBER: The two brothers then
had children, they had wives.
And then people would give
birth to more children.
It gets confusing because they
lived for such a long time.
So you could have the
grandfather, the father,
and they were--
>>REGINA: And many
grandchildren.
>>FARBER: Many grandchildren.
So they had a ruling
of the Twelve.
There were 12 who
were the council who
sort of ran the place.
And the way things changed
in terms of who had dominance
was based on when the
procession of the equinox
is put the first day of
spring into a different sign.
Everyone's always singing
about the Age of Aquarius.
Well, it was a big deal to them.
And we all know that there's
observatories around the world,
whether it's Stonehenge,
whether it's Chichen Itza,
there's observatories.
Because the change in
Egypt, it was a big deal.
The Ziggurat at Ur.
People will say,
well, astrology came--
I mean even I have
written in my book
"Karma Cards," because before
I knew the Sitchin work,
I'd tried to apply a
different kind of logic.
This was before I had
identified myself as a psychic.
I approached it from an
agrarian point of view.
And then one day I
realized, no farmer needs
a gigantic Ziggurat of Ur to
know when to plant his crops,
because if he does he
shouldn't be in that business.
You can see that lambs are
being born, oh, spring's coming.
There's a whole bunch of things.
They needed it for a big
reason, and the reason
was who's the boss.
And when the change
from Aries right now we
talk about the Age
of Aquarius, we
sing about the Age of Aquarius,
it's been the Age of Pisces,
Pisces was the fish,
the fish is Jesus.
The symbol for
Jesus was the fish.
But a few Piscean ages ago,
and it takes about 25,000 years
to go around.
A few Piscean ages
ago, that fish
was the first guy who came here.
That was his symbol because
he landed in the water,
and he wore a suit that
enabled him to go in the water.
So his symbol was the fish.
His son's symbol, which is
some very weird Sumarian name,
Ningishzida.
His symbol was the
DNA snakes that we
use today, the
caduceus, which is
used to identify medical things.
They knew about DNA.
They knew all this stuff.
So when we have our inventions
today, it's a reinvention.
They were able to communicate
with their planet.
So they must have known
about a whole lot of things.
I don't know about the
psychic stuff, though.
That's something that I think
might be a function of Earth.
Because we were made, when that
first brother, the fish, who's
Enki, when him
and his sister who
was the medical technician
on board Star Trek, she said,
my hands have made it.
She figured out how to
do it by combining clay
from different areas.
And that's the
Sumerian explanation
of why the different races are.
Why we're different
colors, because we're
from the different clays of the
areas that they made the pe--
It's kind of beautiful in a way,
it's kind of scary in a way.
But it's a lot of fun.
And then what happened is
you have these 12 goddesses
and gods-- there's only
one real goddess, Ishtar,
who was the one who--
because she was tough.
She was really tough.
So you'd have--
astrology was used
to tell when the procession
of equinoxes, when
the first day of spring
would occur in the different
constellations.
It goes back, I think, 72 years
is one degree of each 30 degree
segment of a 360 degree circle.
So it's every 72 years.
So every 2,160 years, I think,
the rulership would change.
But for them, that's
nothing, because they lived--
>>REGINA: So you're saying those
cycles were a direct reference
to who the planetary rule was--
>>FARBER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --under at that time.
>>FARBER: It was
like a time clock.
>>REGINA: When
did it switch over
to being symbolic of
the animal kingdom?
>>FARBER: Well, those
symbols were always the same.
>>REGINA: They were.
>>FARBER: Yes.
They were always the same.
Ishtar was always
a woman with wheat.
And the bull was Enlil.
He was the Bull of Heaven.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: It used to be the
bull was the first sign.
And then when it moved
into Aries who was Marduk,
which is the Babylonian name
for Ra of Egypt-- You see,
the problem is is they have so
many names because they're--
>>REGINA: The same entities
have so many names.
>>FARBER: Yes.
And Ra was-- like
whenever we're in church
and we say the word amen,
that comes back from Egypt.
Amen in Egyptian meant hidden.
When Ra was expelled for his
transgressions from Egypt
and went to South America.
If you read the Sitchin work--
>>REGINA: It gets--
>>FARBER: I know it gets--
>>REGINA: --very confusing.
Because then if you go
into more modern times,
you're looking at Edgar Cayce is
the reincarnation of Ra, and on
and on and on.
I mean, it gets
really confusing.
>>FARBER: Well, as
a psychic, I know
that it would be
easy to confuse--
because I was a big
Edgar Cayce fan.
Still am, because he's like one
of the kings of all psychics.
And I actually left
college because I
thought the Earth
changes were coming.
I could imagine the
guidance counselor is still
dining out on that story.
>>REGINA: I'm sure.
>>FARBER: But you
can make mistakes.
And it's easy to understand
that time in history
as Atlantis or Lemuria,
because all these places
around the world existed along
the 30th parallel mainly,
which is why the Sphinx looks
out on the 30th parallel.
All this stuff is in
the Sitchin books.
They're fascinating, lovely
explanations for stuff.
But it's a ride.
You have to deal with
a scientist who's
trying to document everything.
>>REGINA: And we were talking
off camera and you were saying
the really big shift in
astrology came when it was no
longer something that was
utilized only by the royalty
and leaders--
>>FARBER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --of the planet.
When it started becoming more
of a popularly used system--
>>FARBER: It backfired.
>>REGINA: It changed.
It backfired.
OK, let's talk about
that transition.
>>FARBER: Sure.
The gods and goddesses used
the superstitious aspect
to control the people.
It's just like,
what was it, Lennon
who said religion is the
opiate of the people.
They used it.
And so it was them who
sort of started it off
as the omens
proclaim my divinity.
Or the omens-- they
had omen priests.
Sitchin, who was a
linguist, told me
that the word worship,
the origin for worship
as he had understood
it meant to work for.
And when you worshipped a
god, you provided them--
>>REGINA: I would
agree with that.
I don't like that word.
>>FARBER: Yeah, well, you
provided them with food.
You provided them with stuff
because they were lazy.
And supposedly they
were big, and plus they
came from this planet where
their time was so different.
Our Earth was just like, oh
my god, the lights are on,
the lights are off.
So they had to develop ways of
dealing with all those things.
And it just got to the point
where the omen priests,
it's like anything
else, it devolved.
One minute you're using it as
a clock to determine rulership.
Then you start
saying to the people,
oh yes, but I want
you to fight for me
because the omens in the sky
are saying I am the leader,
and you should be
fighting for me.
Sitchin has a book called
"The War of Gods and Men."
When they gods started
using men as surrogates
to fight their battles because
they all-- not only were they
human, they were some of
the worst aspects of human.
They were incestuous,
the guys couldn't keep it
in their space suits.
And it was really very odd.
The things that they-- I
mean with their grandchildren
and people.
It's what you would
think would happen
with very, very human
beings or, unfortunately,
some of the worst aspects
of human beings given
ultimate power.
And were supposedly really
big when they first start.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
25, 35 feet tall.
>>FARBER: Yes.
And supposedly when
they started us,
the stories in the Bible
of Methuselah are real.
And if I was a super
wealthy person,
and I'm sure this
is going on, I would
be studying the junk genes
that have been reported,
because supposedly
those can be turned on
and we could live for
hundreds of years.
And there are some
people that say, well,
who wants to live for
hundreds of years?
I'm enjoying my life.
You could live healthy.
So originally when we
were built as people,
they didn't want us to
fall apart in 70, 80 years.
They wanted us to work in
the mines for a long time.
That's one of the, I think,
one of the important aspects
of Sitchin's work is it
suggests that there is a way
to have us live a longer time.
So the superstition connected
with the omens in the sky,
then instead-- the
first time someone
said-- they used to do
the charts of the kings
to show why the King
was so wonderful.
Because the gods decided
that they couldn't just
talk to the people.
There were so many people.
They needed intercession.
They needed either a-- first
it was priests who were really
scientists, then it was kings.
And when kingship
was done, the king
would be able to approach them.
Then the king's chart-- they had
to show his chart to show why
he was so great--
>>REGINA: So
proclamation will do.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
And then the first time
they did a chart for someone
less than a king was the
beginning of democracy.
And now we do charts
for everything.
We do charts for companies,
we do charts for books.
>>REGINA: So during
what period of history
did that happen where it
started becoming popularized?
>>FARBER: Well, I'm sure
it was popularized even
in the early days of kingship.
>>REGINA: So Babylonian times.
>>FARBER: 3000 BC.
It could be 2000 BC.
Probably with Acadia.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: Which was the
first Semitic language.
But I'm sure it had
to be done in secret
because that was-- they were
very, very rigid in terms
of what you could do and
what you couldn't do.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: And they'd
kill you for very little.
>>REGINA: And yet
at the same time,
there are cave drawings of the
cycles of the Moon dating back
at least 25,000 years,
probably beyond.
>>FARBER: Because it was magic.
If you want to look
at the people-- Well,
that was the earliest calendar.
The Moon is the
earliest calendar.
You have the two calendars--
the calendar originally
that the Hebrews used,
that the Jews used,
which is I think
57 something, is
the same calendar from
Sippar in Sumeria.
They've been using
this calendar which
connects the solar and
the lunar calendar.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
I spoke with Jose
Arguelles before he died,
and we had a very
interesting conversation.
And he was talking
about the Mayan calendar
and the passage of
time and cycles.
>>FARBER: Yeah, Sitchin
quotes him, actually.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And then he was talking
about the introduction
of the Gregorian calendar,
which we use now,
as being something that
was intentionally planted
by an extraterrestrial species
to put the average human out
of sync with all natural
rhythms and cycles--
>>FARBER: Probably true.
>>REGINA: --and
make us compliant.
So what about this larger cycle?
If that's happening
with the calendar itself
where, obviously,
it should be more
of a Moon cycle, a 28-day cycle,
rather 30, 31 days, 28 one
month of the year.
However they have
constructed it,
it's just off enough
that you're never--
you're looking at an artificial
construct for guidance
rather than an
innate understanding
of natural cycles.
So how does that reflect back
to what happened with astrology?
>>FARBER: Well, because
astrology, Western astrology
starts with the equinox.
When someone says Happy New
Year to me on January 1,
it's like that's
not my new year.
My new year is the
first day of spring.
And all those wonderful
temples were-- a lot of them
were oriented to determine when
is the first day of spring.
When does the sun come
through, and it wouldn't always
fall in the Aries constellation.
Now it's been in Pisces
for the last 20--
and pretty soon it's
going to be in Aquarius.
It pretty much is in Aquarius.
All the electronics
that we have now.
You might say that the
harbinger was in the 1600s
when the atom was rediscovered.
The Hindus have had the concept
of the atom for 10,000 years.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>FARBER: And what
did they call it?
Anu, A-N-U, which was the name
of the god ruler of Nibiru.
That's the actual spelling.
Same sound.
Just like some sounds resonate
through history, like Ram.
Everything from Ram of India
to RAM, Random Access Memory
from the computer.
There are certain sounds that
resonate through history.
And that's another reason
I love Sitchin stuff,
it just sets me off
thinking about stuff.
>>REGINA: All the correlations.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
But it's odd.
>>REGINA: So it's passed down.
It's using superstition.
It's initially used
to control the masses.
Now the masses
have access to what
is, more or less, an
established, almost scientific
kind of modality.
I guess you call it
divination device or tool.
>>FARBER: Well, that's
what it becomes,
because ever since people
have known there was a future,
everyone wants to predict it.
This is why I have a business.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: And they wanted
to predict it, too.
Now, the strange thing
about the Anunnaki
is they believed in God.
And their big debate was
whether the horrible things that
had happened-- once they
realized what they had done
when the nuclear
devices went off
and they didn't know anything
about radiation, once they
realized they had killed
the things they just
loved and destroyed them
all, they wanted to know
was it fate, or was it destiny?
Their understanding
of destiny as a word
was like a planetary--
planets have destinies.
Yeah, they can be changed, but
like every four billion years
or every few mill--
Fate, they called their
leader, the decider of fate.
The different gods were
the decider of fates
because fates can be changed.
And they finally came to
believe that certain things had
been destiny.
And they supposedly
left the planet,
but I don't believe
everybody left.
You never know, because there's
certain things in world events
that sure smack of someone
trying to have control--
>>REGINA: Well,
>>FARBER: --over everyone.
>>REGINA: --and
those giant beings
exist all over the planet.
Those kinds of
skeletons have been
found in Asia, South
America, Central America.
There's some very
large beings that
have been found in
North America as well.
So this is not something that
was exclusive to that region.
>>FARBER: No, not at all.
And if you go to any place
that has any of the Sumerian
headdresses, like
University of Pennsylvania
or in England they're at
some of the museums or maybe
even the Lourve,
they're like this big.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: The woman's
headdress is like this big.
And you know,
Sitchin's last book
was all about Puabi--
Puabi-- I looked it up.
Supposedly, this sarcophagus
exists in an English museum
of this woman who
probably has alien DNA.
And he really wanted
to have that analyzed
to see if-- And he bet
his whole life on it.
I don't know if
it'll ever happen.
But he was willing to
stake his reputation
on DNA from this
mummy being in there.
So if this stuff is true
or not doesn't really
affect the fact that I
can do a chart for you
and tell you stuff about it.
Once again, we're
back to a situation
where we have to, just like
in your astrology chart,
reconcile all the disparate
aspects of astrology.
I have to reconcile the
fact that I look out
on the world as an Aquarius.
I have a Pisces
moon, which is so
different-- the signs next to
each other are so different.
Aquarius is cold and emotional,
Pisces is very emotional.
And yet it's my rising sign that
the world sees, which is Leo.
I always joke about
Leo risings, art--
we have stage fright, sure.
We get scared if
we're not on stage.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: So it's trying
to get involved with--
to reconcile the fact that
it started with superstition.
It was used to
control the masses.
Unfortunately-- and we were
talking about India before.
Sometimes it controls
people's lives too much.
I do not believe in living your
life by astrology or anything.
Because I'm a big
free will person.
Once again--
>>REGINA: But it can give
you just certain potentials
and attributes that you can
likely use or choose or not
choose.
>>FARBER: Like what you were
saying about electricity
yesterday.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>FARBER: It shows
you the potentials
and where you're flowing.
But you can't look
at someone's chart
and say this person is a genius
or this person is unfortunately
in a mental institution.
I don't understand how you
can tell from astrology
what level someone's
operating their chart on.
I'm not that good.
I don't think
anyone's that good.
>>REGINA: Well,
and also, you just
talked about reconciling
these various factors.
Now we have to reconcile also
that there's vedic astrology.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now, vedic astrology
shifts the chart to the extent
that you're almost
in an entire sign--
>>FARBER: You are.
>>REGINA: --behind what your--
>>FARBER: Because they
use the constellations.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Western astrology says, and some
people love vedic astrology,
some people love Western.
Then you have Chinese.
The Chinese--
>>FARBER: Well,
that's different.
>>REGINA: The Chinese astrology,
the Chinese horoscope.
And that's different as well.
So you have chosen
Western astrology, why?
>>FARBER: It's what
I learned at first.
And it seems to work.
And I don't want to
mess up my brain.
It's why I stay
away from numerology
because their versions
of the numbers
are different from
what astrology teaches.
I have friends who
are numerologists
who do very accurate stuff.
I think, once again, coming
back to the Sabbath being
made for man, not
man for the Sabbath.
I feel that it's in
us, the magic is in us.
The magic's not in a magic wand.
My cards are just nothing--
>>REGINA: These are
little guide stones,
but your intuition is innate.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: The divinity, because
they were gods with a small g,
but God with a big G
lives inside all things.
Even they came to
finally realize it
after they destroyed everything.
>>REGINA: And that's a
whole other conversation.
It's a conversation I adore,
but one we can't get into today.
>>FARBER: No, of course.
>>REGINA: That nature of
what is a human versus what
is a god and so forth.
>>FARBER: Well, I just think
that they weren't intuitive,
because why did they
need electronic devices?
They should have
been psychic enough
to communicate with each other--
>>REGINA: Maybe technologically
advanced, but not necessarily
advanced on the other levels of
abilities, expansive abilities.
>>FARBER: It must be.
>>REGINA: Quite possible.
Meanwhile, so now you've
settled on Western astrology.
>>FARBER: I have.
>>REGINA: You use it very
successfully with people.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Now, you use
your psychic abilities
as an overlay, but you've
dedicated a lot of your time,
creativity, energy, your
wife's lovely artwork
to create books-- as you say,
they're in Barnes and Noble.
You have your own shelf.
>>FARBER: We do in the
spirituality section
of Barnes and Noble.
>>REGINA: And you've
created even these--
>>FARBER: This is my first book.
>>REGINA: --these cards.
Yeah, these karma cards.
But the reason I had
you bring these here
is because when we were
speaking off camera
you said one of the things
that is often overlooked
is the importance
of the rising sign.
>>FARBER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I
want us to have news
we can go away with
individually today,
if you'll please take
some time and talk
about the various
signs and the rising
signs and their attributes.
>>FARBER: It is so powerful.
I know that we've
talked about astrology
is coming from superstition.
But the rising sign is
something-- have you ever
wondered why don't they get
me, or why I'm saying this
and they're not hearing me,
it's because your rising
sign and your sun sign, or your
rising sign and your moon sign,
especially if you're
a woman, is different.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's talk about
what the rising sign is,
how you even find it on a chart.
>>FARBER: OK, it's the
most specious thing
we've spoked about so far.
The rising sign is
the sign that is
on the horizon at
the moment you're
born, the second
that you're born,
as viewed from the
place you're born.
So I was born on January 22,
1950, which was Aquarius.
But the sign on the horizon
at 6:33 PM that was rising
was Leo.
And that is how I have
chosen to project myself
into physical reality.
>>REGINA: But most people
hear that they're an Aquarius
and that's it.
>>FARBER: They think
they're an Aquarius.
>>REGINA: They think
they're an Aquarius
and you project to the world at
a party, oh, I'm an Aquarius.
But what you're saying
is the other person
is saying maybe you
think so, but what
I see is the rising sign.
I see a Leo.
>>FARBER: They're seeing
an Aquarius flavored
with Pisces overtones.
It's like we're like
a glass of wine.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: Well, I sense it's a
susane of Aquarius with Pisces.
It's a lot of fun.
I tell people-- I've been doing
these things on Facebook called
tweetchings, which I'll
explain to people all
the different rising
signs and what it means,
and I'll do it in
tweet-size bites.
>>REGINA: And I
want to do that now.
>>FARBER: OK.
So I tell people look at
yourself as a movie projector.
A movie projector
is a bright light,
a curved mirror to
focus that bright light,
and it goes out
through the film,
and then it goes
out through a lens.
What do people see?
They see the light
on the lens that's
been projected onto the screen.
What is the bright light?
The bright light is the sun.
In your chart, even the
symbol in your astrology chart
is a dot in the center of
a circle like the sun's
in the center of
the solar system.
Like you're in the center
of everything else.
The ego, the sun is the purpose.
The ego.
So your ego bright light
gets reflected off your moon.
In astrology the
symbol for the moon
looks like a curved mirror.
And so there's that
bright light sun,
my Aquarius sun
getting reflected off
of my Pisces-colored moon,
so it colors the light.
Then it gets reflected and it
goes towards my rising sign
lens.
What's the film?
It's my thoughts.
It's the constant film
of my 35 millimeter brain
always going with
different things.
And how is that going to
get shot out into the world?
It's going to get shot
out into the world
through my rising sign.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's--
>>FARBER: So they see Leo.
>>REGINA: OK, so Leo-- why
don't we start at Aries
and then work our way through.
>>FARBER: If you're
an Aries rising,
you could be the nicest Pisces,
you could be the nicest Cancer,
you could be the sweet--
they see you as aggressive.
They see you as liking to fight.
And they'll say to you
that you like to fight,
and you'll say no you
don't, no I don't.
And you'll be fighting.
But for you, you're
not fighting.
You're just telling
them what's true.
So the rising sign is a
very interesting concept
because it has nothing
to do with you.
All it has to do with is
how people perceive you.
And it's so powerful.
So if you're a Cancer,
sun, and you're sensitive
and you want to help everybody,
and your rising sign is Aries,
a lot of times people
will be like, well,
that's a little harsh.
And this is without
talking about planets
that are in the signs
at the same moment
you're rising, because when
I was born Pluto was there,
so that changes the things too.
But still, if you're
an Aries rising,
you're always going
to be perceived
as somebody who
wants to be first,
a little pushy, a
little aggressive.
All the traits that you--
>>REGINA: Controlling?
>>FARBER: They can
be controlling.
Bossy--
>>REGINA: Bossy,
>>FARBER: OK. -is more-- And
I love my wife is an Aries.
She has Mars in Aries
and Mercury in Aries,
and I'll say you're bossy.
She'll say no, I'm not bossy.
I just know what I want.
I want--
>>REGINA: So there's a fair
amount of denial that goes
along with the--
>>FARBER: Well, for
fun, sure, yeah.
>>REGINA: --with our rising sign
because inside ourselves, we're
feeling-- maybe
we're relating more
to our purpose or our emotions
of the moon or something,
and we resent people
seeing us in this way
because we don't think it's
an accurate reflection.
But it's really,
really good to know
that that is what's being
cast out as the image.
>>FARBER: Well, it's just like
what we're talking about today.
The history of astrology is
something if you don't know it,
you don't know it.
If you don't know
about your rising sign,
it's like you have an
incomplete bag of tools.
So a lot of astrologists don't
know where it's come from.
That's what--
>>REGINA: Yeah--
>>FARBER: --afflicts them--
>>REGINA: I've never put
so much emphasis on it.
OK, now we have about
15, 20 minutes left,
and I want to go through all
of them and have some fun.
>>FARBER: OK.
Taurus rising, if
you're a Taurus rising,
people see you as steady.
They will trust you.
They see you as-- Taurus
is ruled by Venus.
They're usually
attractive people.
They see you as
somebody they can trust.
You don't like change.
They see you this way.
But let's say you have your moon
in Aquarius, you like change.
>>REGINA: Well, that's me, my
moon in Aquarius and Taurus
rising.
>>FARBER: Now that's what I say.
They see you as change is not
something that you really want.
But it's something
that you do want.
But this is one of the
hard things to reconcile.
>>REGINA: So someone else
might be looking back
and I'm thinking I love change.
I'm looking for the next
most interesting thing.
But in reality, that's not
what's being protected.
>>FARBER: Because
on occasion you
will have said something to
someone in a Taurus rising
fashion to indicate that
you don't want things
to change about a
particular thing.
And in your mind,
you're being Aquarian
and you're being coldly
scientific about it,
and you're just
laying out the facts.
And they heard it as this
is the way things have to be
or else I will not be
happy, and you will not
be happy if I'm not happy.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: Because Taurus,
think of the bull.
When Taurus gets really mad,
you don't want to be around.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: Even though Aries are
more angry and then calm down.
Taurus, if you get them
angry, get out of the way.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: You don't
want that to happen.
So then you get
to Gemini rising.
Gemini rising, they are quick.
They don't like to be bored.
Oh my god.
Boredom is-- this
is why they could
have a whole bunch
of different signs,
and yet it doesn't
apply to them,
because they want
to know everything.
They seem very fast.
They seem very communicative.
And let's say someone's a
Scorpio with a Gemini rising.
That's hard.
And this is another thing
with the rising sign,
it explains why you're
having difficulty
projecting who you really
are into life, which
is what's so useful
because it helps
you to feel more
comfortable with yourself.
That's why I get
excited about it.
Because when I was a kid, I was
shy, and I'm not shy anymore.
>>REGINA: No.
>>FARBER: Because I had that
Aquarian scientific thing.
When you're scientific
or you're a little cold,
you're a little
unemotional about something
because you want to
make it work and you
don't want to have to think
about all the emotions involved
with it.
I was a little ashamed of that.
Now, it's just like
hey, rising sign.
You don't like it?
Too bad.
>>REGINA: Too bad.
That's what it is.
OK.
>>FARBER: So Gemini
rising, they usually
have long arms, which is
a very interesting trait.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>FARBER: They
seem young forever.
Gemini rising's
actually kind of fun.
They seem smart quick.
But they don't
necessarily seem like they
want to study like
Zacharia did for 90 years.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>FARBER: So now Cancer
rising is the nurturer.
Now, if you're a really
aggressive person
and you're a Cancer rising,
no one's going to know.
>>REGINA: What if you're
Aries with Cancer rising?
>>FARBER: No one's going to
know how aggressive you are,
and you can get away with a lot.
Because you're thinking
they're-- Aries are burning all
the time.
And Cancer rising,
everyone thinks you care.
So you can get away with a
bit when you're Cancer rising.
But they really-- the thing
is you really do care,
and when you're a Taurus
rising you really are that way.
You really do want--
you want to make things
better because
Taurus likes luxury,
and Taurus doesn't
want people to suffer.
They hate pain.
Taurus as a sign hates pain.
So they want things to be--
And Aries rising really
do want to be pioneers.
They do want to be first,
and sometimes they'll
push to get to the
head of the line.
And Geminis really do
want to know everything.
They wish if they could just
sit at the Library of Alexandria
for a little while,
they'd know everything.
They really want to do that.
And Cancers really do
want to nurture people.
The thing to know is
if your rising sign's
different than your sun sign
tremendously, it's hard.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You have internal conflict.
>>FARBER: Like if you were a
Libra rising and a Scorpio sun,
it's hard.
And you think about the
structure of a chart,
if you're let's say a
Scorpio rising in Libra sun,
it puts your sun
into the 12th house
which makes you a little
shyer than normal.
There's a lot of intricacies
in astrology that I
have found-- sorry--
actually work.
And the rising sign is sort
of the key to understanding
the things that
don't seem to work.
OK, so now we're
going on from Cancer.
>>REGINA: So hidden
conflicts, OK.
>>FARBER: Leo rising I've
already talked about.
>>REGINA: That's you.
>>FARBER: Yeah.
I mean we stand
upright, we're proud.
Leo is proud.
The word for a group
of lions is pride.
And I've already said
that our stage fright
is we get scared when
we're not on stage.
Like we read things
about public speaking.
Fear of public speaking
is worse than death
fear for most people.
We're like what's that mean?
That's impossible.
So Leo is--
>>REGINA: And
people warm to Leos.
>>FARBER: They do.
>>REGINA: They are
charming, often.
>>FARBER: We're having fun.
We're here, we might
as well have fun.
That's the Leo attitude.
But Leos as leaders--
Aries are leaders
because they're out
there pioneering.
Leos as leaders walk backwards
making sure someone's
following them.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's about me.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
Enough about me, what
do you think of me?
So then Virgo now.
If you're a Leo and a Virgo
combination, very hard,
because Virgo looks
at things, they're shy
and-- even though
Ishtar was not shy,
I mean the sacred King rituals,
all those things were from her.
She was incredibly strong and
violent and powerful woman.
Virgo as a sign represents
analysis, detail-oriented work.
If you get connected to worrying
about the outcome of what
your analysis is, it's worry.
So if you're a Virgo
rising everyone--
Virgo rising or Pisces rising,
the opposite sign, everyone
always comes up to you
and says, what's wrong?
Is something wrong?
And if you're a Leo sun,
there's nothing wrong.
You're looking out in the
world as a Leo and you're
a Pisces rising, everyone's
like, are you OK?
>>REGINA: But they often
have a lot of the minutia--
>>FARBER: The Virgo rising.
>>REGINA: --shunted
off onto them
because they can handle it.
They can handle
detail without it
driving them absolutely insane.
That's the perception anyway.
>>FARBER: That they
want to do useful,
they want to do useful work.
Another thing about
Taurus is they
are the copers of the zodiac.
So people think that you
can cope with anything.
>>REGINA: True.
>>FARBER: Throw another
rock on the pile.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
That is very true.
>>FARBER: She'll carry it.
Don't worry.
But you're not a Taurus.
That's the thing
to keep reminding.
I just look this way.
I play this on TV.
>>REGINA: So the
Virgo, they are tasked,
and they're often
seen as the one who
can handle the responsibilities
of a lot of detail, when maybe
that's not what they are
in their sun sign at all.
That's just what
they appear to be.
>>FARBER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>FARBER: The rising sign is
always what you appear to be.
And when we get
to Capricorn we'll
talk about that, because
if you're a Capricorn,
you're going to be given more
responsibility than you should
be.
Virgos are usually--
>>REGINA: Oh,
that's interesting.
>>FARBER: One of the great
things about the rising sign
is mothers should know their
children's rising sign.
>>REGINA: Very good.
>>FARBER: Think about it.
A kid can't talk.
But if you know your child's
rising sign, you'll understand,
and your sun sign,
you'll understand
that they might look
like look like-- what
if your baby is a Pisces
or a Virgo rising?
What's wrong?
There's something wrong.
There's nothing wrong.
I'm sure sometimes there
is something wrong,
but you know what I mean.
There's a tendency.
>>REGINA: OK.
So where are we now?
>>FARBER: So now
we're up to Libra.
>>REGINA: Libra, OK.
>>FARBER: So if
you're a Libra rising,
everything's bounc-- the
air signs are Libra, where
your point of view
is in the middle.
You're looking here and here to
see how the scales are balanced
and the scales are
never balanced.
If you're a Gemini, you're
here and you're here.
So when you're a
Gemini rising, they
see you as two different people.
I can't believe I
didn't say that before.
But it's so major.
If you're a Gemini rising,
people are always like,
but you just said something
completely different.
No.
I'm a Gemini rising and I
am two different people.
If you don't like that,
you don't like me.
See, that's the whole business.
And if you're Aquarius
you're all over the place.
You're non-local.
It's the Heisenberg uncertainty
principle as a personality.
If you know where
he is, then you
can't measure how
fast it's going.
And if you don't know
how fast it's going,
you don't know where it is.
>>REGINA: Now we're in
the quantum realm, OK.
>>FARBER: We're in the quantum
realm with personality.
So if you're a Libra rising,
you're in the middle.
You're watching this, so
they like nice clothes,
they like balance,
they like harmony.
So you're an Aries, but
you're a Libra rising.
So you are ready
to kick some butt.
And everyone thinks
he just wants harmony.
Don't fight.
If you're a Libra rising, people
should not fight around you
because Libras are willing
to fight for harmony.
But once again, knowing
that people are seeing you,
and Libra is-- every sign
has positive and negative.
Libra rising negative is they
can see you as indecisive.
Like oh my god, I
can't really decide.
I can't really decide.
And Gemini is not
going to decide,
it's who are they going to be.
It's two different
people at the very least.
And if they're
expert on something,
then you get four different
people with Gemini rising.
OK, so now we move on from
Libra to Scorpio rising.
Scorpio rising is the
sign of misunderstanding
because they're so
passionate, they're
so deep, they're
so beyond words,
they're so no second
agenda with Scorpio
that they are perceived
by the rest of the world
as they can't figure out.
>>REGINA: They're an enigma.
>>FARBER: Scorpio is the
sign of misunderstanding.
So when you're a
Scorpio rising-- my wife
is a Scorpio rising.
She'll be sitting there thinking
did I leave the water running
when I left the
house, and someone
will think that she's
looking at their darkest fear
inside themselves.
>>REGINA: So they're
constantly being misunderstood.
>>FARBER: It's the sign
of misunderstanding.
When you're a Scorpio rising,
if someone doesn't have
their act together
and you look at them,
or if you're a
Scorpio sun-- you see,
when that Scorpio
sun's coming out
of your Taurus
rising, whenever you
have Scorpio prominent
in someone's chart,
weak people need not apply.
Because A) you really do see--
especially when it's the sun,
you really do see through them.
But a Scorpio rising, it looks
like you see through them.
So if you're this
Cancer sun or a Pisces--
and I'm using those as-- there's
other signs that are nice,
but those are the
sweetest, emotional.
You're really nice, and you're
a Scorpio rising, oh, oh, oh.
I didn't mean it, mommy.
They think you're super intense,
because Scorpio is Scorpio.
It's power.
We'll move on to
Sagittarius rising.
Sagittarius rising--
Scorpios can keep secrets,
so they think you're secretive
when you're Scorpio rising.
Sagittarius don't keep secrets.
Scorpio knows the truth
and doesn't say it
because they want to use
it at the right moment
when they can use
the most power.
Sagittarius feel like if they
don't say what they know,
they're lying.
Because the whole
purpose of Sagittarius
is to disseminate wisdom.
>>REGINA: So they'd be all for
the radical truth movement,
right?
>>FARBER: Yeah.
Don't tell them a secret.
>>REGINA: A lot of Sag
risings there, yeah.
>>FARBER: And Sag rising, I
mean Sag risings are blunt
to the point where people feel
like the evil wind of the--
>>REGINA: Oh, I've
experienced that.
>>FARBER: The Anunnaki or-- with
the radiation is just like--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: --a little
too much information.
A little too much truth.
>>REGINA: It's not necessarily
their intention to hurt,
though.
>>FARBER: No, not at all.
Not at all.
See, the whole thing is
they're being themselves.
And when you're a
Sag rising, whatever
energy is all potential and
kinetic inside your projector
of you is coming
through that lens.
And people who don't
know you, only gonna--
and people who don't
want to take the time,
or people who are in a
destabilized situation,
they're only going to see
what's coming out of the lens.
If you're a Sag rising,
they'll see you as wise.
But they'll also see you as
incredibly blunt sometimes
and someone who's
saying something
that maybe they shouldn't say.
It's the classic too
much information.
So now we come to
Capricorn rising.
And this is really
important to know
if your baby's a
Capricorn rising.
Because kids who are
Capricorn risings
are given too much
responsibility as children.
It's classic.
And they shouldn't
be, and then they
end up having another $5
into the psychiatrist's
fund for their future.
They're given too
much responsibility,
but they seem very serious.
And as a sign, they
get younger as they
get older, which is really nice.
Capricorn risings are nice.
>>REGINA: Oh,
that's interesting.
>>FARBER: Yeah,
but they're very--
they want to be respected.
If you know you have a child
that's a Capricorn rising,
do not say you've lost respect
for them because it's like a--
>>REGINA: My husband and my
son are Capricorn rising.
>>FARBER: Well, you understand.
They want to be respected
by the people they respect.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: They don't care about
everybody, but by the people--
and Capricorn as a sign is
the goat with the fish's tail.
The fish's tail symbolizes the
emotional needs of a Capricorn,
and they're very deep.
That's why-- they seem
craggy on the exterior,
but they're very sensitive.
So then we come to
Aquarius rising.
Aquarius risings seem more cool.
They seem more futuristic.
They seem more distant.
They seem more crazy.
The eccentrics and the
geniuses, a lot of them
can be Aquarius rising, or
they're perceived that way.
They seem like they're in
the past or the future.
And the Pisces rising, Pisces
as the last sign controls--
contains something
of every sign.
They're the ones who are
seen as something's wrong,
but it's because they're
reading the energies.
>>REGINA: They're so sensitive.
>>FARBER: They're like--
when I do a psychic reading,
I look away.
I diffuse my consciousness.
It's the purpose of
the crystal ball.
It's not to see little
pictures like it's a TV,
it's to diffuse
your consciousness
so that you can see it on the
little TV inside your head.
So you have the Aquarius rising
who's the futuristic inventor,
wants to do mankind,
and wants to do
everything scientifically--
>>REGINA: Visionary.
>>FARBER: -by the book.
The visionary.
And someone like
Zachariah, I know
he had Mercury in Leo, which is
why he's so proud of himself.
But he must have
had Aquarius, too.
But Pisces cares.
Aquarius cares, but they're
doing about the future
so they won't be around to
know what exactly happens.
But they--
>>REGINA: But
Pisces really cares.
>>FARBER: Pisces really cares.
>>REGINA: Now.
They care now.
>>FARBER: The care really now.
They really feel it.
They feel your pain is the
classic example of Pisces.
So that brings us
through the 12 signs.
>>REGINA: So what if
you have an Aquarian sun
and then a Pisces rising?
>>FARBER: It's hard.
I tell you, when they're right
next to each other, that's
the hardest.
So you are being-- if you are
a Pisces rising and Aquarius
sun, wow, that is hard.
>>REGINA: I would think it's
the total opposite projection.
>>FARBER: But
depending on if they're
at different houses
of astrology.
Astrology chart looks like
a pizza pie with 12 slices.
So the sign that's right above
the horizon of the slice,
that's right above the
horizon is the 12th House,
if your sun's there, you need--
you're even more sensitive.
Even if you're an
Aquarius because it's
that dawn time of day.
You would need to be alone.
You would do well with
large institutions
because in a large
institution in a way,
you merge with a large
institution, it's a merging.
Pisces is all about
merging the oneness.
Put your finger or
your toe in the ocean
and you connect
with all the oceans.
That's what psychics go through.
>>REGINA: Wow.
I mean it makes total sense.
If you didn't know anything
else of a metaphysical nature
about your child, that if
you knew this one thing,
it could help you tremendously
in raising that person.
>>FARBER: It really
is, because you
meet people who say I
don't understand my child.
And then I can look at their
chart and in five minutes
they're going, really?
I don't know their child from
a hole-- I wouldn't know him
if he walked in the room.
But I know what the
problem is because you
can see it in the
astrology chart.
And to reconcile that
with the Anunnaki 12
is kind of impossible,
but it's fun.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>FARBER: So I'm
having a good time.
>>REGINA: It's hard
reconciling them,
but we come down to
practical tools and--
>>FARBER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: This is fun.
You've got practical tools here.
This is the Karma Card set.
>>FARBER: Yes, my first book.
>>REGINA: Your
first book and you
said that you don't know how
you even wrote what you wrote.
It's a really good
kind of primer guide
to astrology you're saying?
>>FARBER: I've read a lot
of books on astrology since,
and mine I still think is
the clearest, easiest way
to understand astrology basics.
And I'm not just saying
it because-- because it's
my first book, I don't make
very much money on it at all.
I just want people
to learn astrology
because it's so
useful and powerful.
>>REGINA: So an
easy way to learn
it and it has all these
little cards, which
you can use as divination tools
to go through if you have,
say, something you want
to know an outcome to,
or a way to handle something.
You go through and
use these cards,
which is-- that's very cool.
We only have about
a minute left.
Any final thoughts on astrology
you can share in 30 seconds?
>>FARBER: Well, the
thing about astrology
is it teaches us how
similar we all are
and how different we all are.
And the key to remembering
about astrology
is not that you somehow have
to transcend your chart.
You just have to--
it says to you
this is who you are potentially.
Work it out.
>>REGINA: There you go.
And not only that, it
seems like it would also
encourage compassion.
>>FARBER: For sure.
>>REGINA: We're hard-wired
in with some of these things.
>>FARBER: Well, I have
moon in Pisces, so--
>>REGINA: Of course.
Monte and I have also discussed
astrology's impact on markets
and what that means
to each of us today.
Are the current market
tools becoming antiquated?
Do we have an entirely different
financial landscape ahead,
globally?
You can find out the
answer to these questions
by taking a look at
our previous interview.
Meanwhile, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.